>> Jason Lengstorf: Styles and
Gatsby are are actually fairly flexible
you can do them with regular CSS.
You can use CSS modules, you can use
any of the CSS and JS solutions.
All of them have their trade offs, for
this particular workshop we're
going to be using Emotion but
there's nothing that stops you from
using really whatever you want.
We are gonna be using Emotion for this.
Emotion is one of many flavors of CSS and
JS.
There is no right or
wrong solution here this is just very
much gonna come down to preference.
You don't even need to use CSS and
JS with Gatsby.
You can use CSS modules or just plain
CSS files, it really is up to you.
So to make this work,
what we're going to do is we're going
to install a few new dependencies.
So I'm going to stop my server.
I'm hitting Ctrl+C to do that and
then, let's clear so
it's a little easier to see.
How's my font size?
Can everybody read it?
Okay, so we're going to do an npm install.
And I'm going to install
@emotion/core @emotion/styled and
gatsby-plugin-emotion.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So emotion/core is
gonna give us access to global styles and
to the CSS prop which we wanna use.
And then emotion/styled gives us
a styled components kind of interface.
We'll look at a few different ways
to do styles and mix and match.
And then gatsby-plugin-emotion is to add
the things that we need for Gatsby to
build with Emotion properly, made ads,
a Babel plugin and some other stuff so
that you don't have to think about
it again, we want this to be easy.
So you install the plugin and
things are just gonna work.
So let me get this installing.
So to configure plugins,
we have to create a file out here and
this file is called gatsby-config.
And this is an optional file only if you
want to change things in your gatsby site.
It's set up using the common JS style, so
you are going to do module.exports and
then this exports an object.
You can leave this empty if you want,
again none of the fields in here
are required, they are all optional.
We want to include plug-ins and
the plug-in that we want to
include is gatsby-plugin-emotion.
So having done this,
Gatsby now knows how to use Emotion.
So this is kind of like the matrix,
you just download the knowledge and
you know kung fu, and you're ready to go.
So once you've got this typed in, that's
the last you need to think about config.
We can just start writing some code.
And the way that we're going to do this
is we're going to create a common layout.
So on any website,
you're probably gonna have a header and
maybe some navigation, some stuff
that stays the same between pages.
And we also probably want something like,
if I make this full screen,
this is kinda junky, it's all stuck
to the side of page and stuff.
That's not really what we want.
So instead,
let's come up with a way to style this and
make it look nice as
it's currently set up.
And make that sharable, so kind of
global styles and all those good things.
So to do that, I'm gonna create a new
folder, and folder names in this source
directory, aside from pages, are up to
you, you can call them whatever you want.
And I'm gonna create a file
called layout.js, and so in this,
this is gonna be another react component,
so we're gonna import react from react.
And then I want to import Global and
the CSS prop from emotion/core.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Then I am going to
just set this up to be a named constant.
The reason that I'm doing that is because
if you're trying to debug your react,
it's helpful to name the components.
It makes life a little bit easier.
In a layout component, it's a little bit
special because what we're going to do is
we are just going to wrap things with the
layout, and then anything that gets passed
to that, as child content,
we're just going to display them.
We're not gonna do anything to it.
And we're going to take advantage of
react children prop to make that happen.
So, down here,
we can just set up our file.
So we'll start with the react fragment,
and
the first thing that we want to
do is set up our global styles.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
just looking at how this works.
Global is a react component that Emotion
gives us that allows us to set up
basically styles that are going
to show up in the Global scope.
So this is what you would
imagine is like traditional CSS.
Anything that we put here is going to
be applied to everything on the page.